Transient IBOUND Package 
------------------------

The Transient IBOUND (TIB) Package provides the flexibility to change the IBOUND value of any groundwater or CLN cell at any stress period of the simulation. This is advantageous to activate wellbores only when they are drilled, or inactivate them after they are plugged, or to inactivate parts of domains after excavation activities or re-activate them after reclamation. It also provides a mechanism for turning on and off prescribed head cells. It is noted that the MODFLOW FHB and CHD packages allow for turning on a prescribed head cell at any time but once a cell was given a prescribed head condition it could never change back to a regular active cell. 

The TIB package is implemented immediately upon entering a stress period. Therefore, changes made within it may be superseded by prescribed head implementations of the FHB and CHD packages. The TIB package sets the IBOUND value to unity for an activated cell, zero for an inactivated cell, and negative one for a prescribed head cell. The TIB package is also a good location to include transients of property changes, if needed. 

Input to the TIB Package is read from the file that has type "TIB" in the Name File. All single valued variables are free format if the option “FREE” is specified in the Basic Package input file; otherwise, the non-optional variables have 10-character fields and the optional variables are free format. 

FOR EACH SIMULATION
-------------------

0. [#Text]
Item 0 is optional—“#” must be in column 1. Item 0 can be repeated multiple times.

FOR EACH STRESS PERIOD

1. NIB0 NIB1 NIBM1

Read item 2 only if NIB0 is greater than zero
2. [IBO(NIB0)] -- U1DINT 

Read item 3 only if NIB1 is greater than zero
3.	IB1 [OPTIONS]
Note that item 3 is read NIB1 times, one record for each node for which IBOUND is activated. 

Read item 4 only if NIBM1 is greater than zero
4. IBM1 [OPTIONS]
Note that item 4 is read NIBM1 times, one record for each node for which IBOUND is made into a prescribed head. 

Explanation of Variables Read by the TIB Package:
-------------------------------------------------

Text—is a character variable (199 characters) that starts in column 2. Any characters can be included in Text. The “#” character must be in column 1. Lines beginning with # are restricted to the first lines of the file. Text is written to the Listing File.

NIB0—is the number of IBOUND values that will be turned to zero in this stress period. 

NIB1—is the number of IBOUND values that will be turned to active (one) in this stress period. 

NIBM1—is the number of IBOUND values that will be turned to prescribed head (minus one) in this stress period. 

IB0—is the array of cell numbers for which IBOUND values will be set to zero. 

IB1—is the cell number for which IBOUND is set to active (one). 

OPTIONS are keywords to indicate how head values will be set for nodes that are activated: 

HEAD [hvalue] indicates that the head value is input and the number following the keyword HEAD is the value to be used as the initial head at the given cell. 

AVHEAD indicates that the average head of all connected cells that are not inactive, will be used as the initial head at the given cell. 

Note that if no options are provided, then the head from the previous stress period will be used at this node which is turned active. If the node was inactive in the previous stress period, an option is required to provide a head value to the cell that is made active or prescribed head, otherwise the simulation will be aborted. 

IBM1—is the cell number for which IBOUND is set to prescribed head (minus one). Note that the same options follow IBMI as do IB1 for each cell for which the head will be prescribed in this stress period. 
